Introduction to Python and Programming.

Q1. What is Programming?
A1. Programming is the process of giving instructions to a computer to perform
specific tasks. It involves writing code in a programming language that the
computer can understand and execute.

Q2. Why Python?
A2. 1. Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language known for its simplicity and readability.
2. It is widely used in:
3. Web Development (Django, Flask)
4. Data Science and Machine Learning (Pandas, NumPy, TensorFlow)
7. Automation and Scripting
5. Game Development (Pygame)
6. Python has a large community and extensive libraries, making it beginner-friendly.

Setting Up Python and IDEs
Installing Python

1. Download Python:
    1. Visit the official Python website: python.org.
    2. Download the latest version for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).

1. Install Python:
    1. Run the installer and ensure you check the box to Add Python to PATH (important for running Python from the command line).

1. Verify Installation:
    1. Open a terminal or command prompt and type:
           [ python --version ]
    2. This should display the installed Python version (e.g., Python 3.13.5 ).

Choosing an IDE
What is an IDE?

1. An Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is a software application that provides tools for writing, testing, and debugging code.
2. Popular Python IDEs:
3. VS Code: Lightweight, customizable, and supports extensions for Python. (We will use this one as our primary IDE)
4. PyCharm: Powerful IDE with advanced features for professional developers.
5. Jupyter Notebook: Great for data science and interactive coding.
6. IDLE: Comes pre-installed with Python; good for beginners.

Writing Your First Python Program.

The "Hello, World!" Program
    1. Open a folder in your VS code and type the following code in a new file named [hello.py] :
                    [  print("Hello, World!")  ]
    2. Make sure to save the file with a .py extension (e.g., hello.py ).
    3. Run the program:
    4. Use the run button at the top of your IDE or alternatively type this in your VS Code integrated terminal:
                [   python hello.py   ]
                Output: Hello, World!

Key Takeaways:
1. print() is a built-in function used to display output.
2. Python code is executed line by line
